# *__Sockets__*

A __socket__ is a standard way to perform network communication through the OS. A socket can be thought of as an endpoint to a connection, like a socket on an operator’s switchboard. But these sockets are just a programmer’s abstraction that takes care of all the nitty-gritty details of the OSI model described above. To the programmer, a socket can be used to send or receive data over a network. This data is transmitted at the _session layer_ (__5__), above the lower layers (handled by the operating system), which take care of routing. There are several different types of sockets that determine the structure of the _transport layer_ (__4__). The most common types are __stream sockets__ and __datagram sockets__.

_Stream sockets_ provide reliable two-way communication similar to when you call someone on the phone. One side initiates the connection to the other, and after the connection is established, either side can communicate to the other. In addition, there is immediate confirmation that what you said actually reached its destination. Stream sockets use a standard communication protocol called _Transmission Control Protocol_ (__TCP__), which exists on the transport layer (4) of the OSI model. On computer networks, data is usually transmitted in chunks called packets. TCP is designed so that the packets of data will arrive without errors and in sequence, like words arriving at the other end in the order they were spoken when you are talking on the telephone. _Web servers_, _mail servers_, and their respective client applications all use _TCP_ and stream sockets to communicate.

Another common type of socket is a _datagram socket_. Communicating with a datagram socket is more like mailing a letter than making a phone call. The connection is one-way only and unreliable. If you mail several letters, you can’t be sure that they arrived in the same order, or even that they reached their destination at all. The postal service is pretty reliable; the Internet, however, is not. Datagram sockets use another standard protocol called __UDP__ instead of _TCP_ on the _transport layer_ (__4__). UDP stands for _User Datagram Protocol_, implying that it can be used to create custom protocols. This protocol is very basic and lightweight, with few safeguards built into it. It’s not a real connection, just a basic method for sending data from one point to another. With datagram sockets, there is very little overhead in the protocol, but the protocol doesn’t do much. If your program needs to confirm that a packet was received by the other side, the other side must be coded to send back an acknowledgment packet. In some cases packet loss is acceptable. Datagram sockets and UDP are commonly used in _networked games_ and _streaming media_, since developers can tailor their communications exactly as needed without the built-in overhead of TCP.