# *__Peeling Back the Lower Layers__*

When you use a web browser, all seven _OSI layers_ are taken care of for you, allowing you to focus on browsing and not protocols. At the upper layers of OSI, many  protocols can be _plaintext_ since all the other details of the connection are already taken care of by the lower layers. _Sockets_ exist on the _session layer_ (__5__), providing an interface to send data from one host to another. _TCP_ on the _transport layer_ (__4__) provides reliability and transport control, while _IP_ on the _network layer_ (__3__) provides addressing and packet-level communication. _Ethernet_ on the _data-link layer_ (__2__) provides addressing between _Ethernet ports_, suitable for basic __LAN__ (_Local Area Network_) communications. At the bottom, the _physical layer_ (__1__) is simply the wire and the protocol used to send bits from one device to another. A single _HTTP_ message will be wrapped in multiple layers as it is passed through different aspects of communication.

This process can be thought of as an intricate interoffice bureaucracy, reminiscent of the movie _Brazil_. At each layer, there is a highly specialized _receptionist_ who only understands the language and protocol of that layer. As data packets are transmitted, each receptionist performs the necessary duties of her particular layer, puts the packet in an interoffice envelope, writes the _header_ on the outside, and passes it on to the receptionist at the next layer below. That receptionist, in turn, performs the necessary duties of his layer, puts the entire envelope in another envelope, writes the header on the outside, and passes it on. Network traffic is a chattering bureaucracy of servers, clients, and peer-to-peer connections. At the higher layers, the traffic could be financial data, email, or basically anything. Regardless of what the packets contain, the protocols used at the lower layers to move the data from point A to point B are usually the same. Once you understand the office bureaucracy of these common lower layer protocols, you can peek inside envelopes in transit, and even falsify documents to manipulate the system.